In this hands on exercise,
we will be looking at JSON data.
First, we will open a terminal window and
then look at the contents of a JSON
file containing tweets from Twitter.
Next, we will examine
the schema of this JSON file.
Finally, we will extract different
fields from the JSON data.
Let's begin.
First, we'll open a terminal window,
by clicking on the terminal
icon at the top of the toolbar.
Next, we'll see cd into the directory
containing the json data,
by running cddownload/big/data/2/json.
We can run ls, to see the json file.
The json file is called twitter.json.
We can run more twitter.json to
view the contents of this file.
The json data contains semi-structured
data, which is nested several levels.
There are many tweets in this file, and
it's hard to read using the more command.
You can use space to scroll down and
when we're done, hit q.
We can run the jsonschema.pi command
to view the schema of this data.
We run jsonschema.pitwitter.json
And we'll add a pipe more at the end.
This shows the nested
fields within this data,
at the top level there are fields
like contributors text and id and so
on, but there are also fields nested
within these top level fields for
example entities also contains
called symbols media hashtags and
so on If we scroll down by hitting space,
we'll see that there's
several levels of nesting.
For example, user also has
follow_request_sent, id, and so on.
We can run the print json script to view
the contents of a particular tweet and
a particular field within that tweet.
Let's run print_json.py.
It asks for the file name so
we'll enter twitter.json.
And we'll look at tweet 99.
So let's look at the top
level field called text.
So here we see the text for
note the 99th tweet in this file.
We could also look at a nested field
within the file, by running print_json
again The file name is twitter.json.
We'll look at tweet 99 again.
And we'll look at the field
entities hashtags.
The hashtags that are embedded or
nested within the entities field.